
@node Running cyberprobe/cybermon at boot time
@chapter Running cyberprobe/cybermon at boot time

The @command{cyberprobe} and @command{cybermon} utilities are used as a pair
to analyse network data.  The @command{cyberprobe} component is used to
capture data and forward to @command{cybermon}.  When running on a network,
you can decide to run several @command{cyberprobe} deployments into a single
@command{cybermon}.  Or run a @command{cybermon} process everywhere you
run a @command{cyberprobe}.

Once you have decided your checklist, your setup checklist for using
@command{cyberprobe} and @command{cybermon} consists of:

@itemize

@item
Install the software, see @ref{Obtaining the software}.

@item
If you are going to run @command{cyberprobe}, provide the appropriate
configuration
in file
@file{@value{SYSCONFDIR}/cyberprobe.cfg}.  The standard installation
will install a template at this location.
See @ref{@command{cyberprobe} configuration} on managing this configuration
file.
Make sure that the configuration file includes the delivery address of the
appropriate @command{cybermon}.

@item
@cindex @command{cybermon}, pub/sub
@cindex Pub/sub delivery
If you are going to run @command{cybermon}, provide the
appropriate configuration in file
@example
@file{@value{SYSCONFDIR}/cyberprobe/cybermon.lua}.
@end example
The standard installation
does not create a file at this location, and you should create one.  You can
copy an example from the @file{@value{SYSCONFDIR}/cyberprobe} directory.
Use @file{@value{SYSCONFDIR}/cyberprobe/amqp-topic.lua} if you want to use
pub/sub delivery.  See @ref{@command{cybermon} configuration} for more
information on constructing the configuration file.
See @ref{@command{cybermon} example configurations} for descriptions of the
example configuration files.

@item
The installation installs appropriate @command{systemd} configuration, and
you can enable boot-time starting of @command{cyberprobe} or
@command{cybermon} by using either or both of these commands:
@example
systemctl enable cyberprobe
systemctl enable cybermon
@end example
Once enabled, you can reboot, or immediately start the processes using either
or both of these commands:
@example
systemctl start cyberprobe
systemctl start cybermon
@end example

@end itemize

