@cindex Release history
@cindex Version history
@heading Revision history

Cyberprobe release highlights:

@table @code

@item 2.5
Pulsar and protobuf support added, permits events from cybermon to be
described in protobuf form, and delivered to a Pulsar pub/sub exchange.
Renamed cybermon- subscribers to evs- (Event Stream).

@item 2.4
@command{cybermon-detector} refactored to use FSM-based evaluation of
boolean expressions.

@item 2.3
@command{cyberprobe-cli} and control API reworked, protobuf and gRPC support.
Amazon Linux support.

@item 2.2
Changed cyberprobe configuration file to use JSON instead of XML.
JSON is easier to integrate with automated processes.

@item 2.0.5
Added VXLAN support to cybermon.  This allows cybermon to receive the
VXLAN protocol which is e.g. used by AWS Traffic Mirroring.

@item 2.0
New simpler Lua API.  Native JSON encoding boosts performance of JSON output
by 500%.

@item 1.13
Cybermon decodes for: TLS, GRE, ESP.

@item 1.12.3
Brought subscribers and docker-compose files up-to-date.

@item 1.11.1
Altered handling of @samp{origin} to make it more resilient.

@item 1.11.0
Added @samp{origin} field to identify whether or not the triggering
device caused an event.

@item 1.10.0
Add RabbitMQ / AMQP 0.9.1 support for cybermon and subscribers.

@item 1.8.4
Endace DAG package support added.

@item 1.7.0
Gaffer subscriber brought up-to-date with Gaffer 1.0 API.  GeoIP and
IOC processor added to the subscriber model.  Some unmaintained Lua code
deprecated, as the subscriber model takes care of the functionality.

@item 1.6.8
Numerous fixes. UUID generation uses a good seed.  ElasticSearch loading
fixed, Mac compilation fixed.

@item 1.6.0
Changed ETSI sender so that packet streams are multiplexed over multiple
TCP streams.

@item 1.5.1
Unbounded queue internal to cybermon has a queue limit, to prevent unbounded
growth.

@item 1.5.0
Timestamp information at the time of packet capture in cyberprobe is now
consistently passed through to cybermon and the Lua functions.  The Lua API
has undergone significant change as a result of passing through timing
information.

@item 1.0
Lua invocation mechanism has been replaced by a thread-safe queue function.

@end table
