
@node Obtaining the software
@chapter Obtaining the software

@heading Deployment using containers

Deploying containers is by far the easiest way to get the software running.
It is possible to deploy a complete software stack for data capture and
analysis using Docker containers which requires the minimal amount of
software installation.
See @ref{A containerised processing system}.

@heading Debian / Ubuntu repository

@cindex Debian
@cindex Ubuntu
@cindex @command{dpkg}
@cindex @command{apt-get}

We use GoCD to build the software, and regularly release packages
in DEB and RPM form.  Installing from the repository is the easiest way to
install if you're not using containers.

In order to install, you need to add our signing key to your system:

@example
  wget -q -O- \
    https://cybermaggedon.github.io/cyberprobe-release/cyberprobe.asc | \
    apt-key add -
@end example

We use this signing key:
@example
@include signing.texi
@end example

Once done you then add our repository to @file{/etc/apt/sources.list}.

For Debian Stretch, add:
@example
deb https://cybermaggedon.github.io/cyberprobe-release/debian \
  stretch main
@end example

For Debian Jessie, add:
@example
deb https://cybermaggedon.github.io/cyberprobe-release/debian \
  jessie main
@end example

For Debian Wheezy, add:
@example
deb https://cybermaggedon.github.io/cyberprobe-release/debian \
  wheezy main
@end example

For Ubuntu Xenial, add:
@example
deb https://cybermaggedon.github.io/cyberprobe-release/ubuntu \
  xenial main
@end example

For Ubuntu Bionic, add:
@example
deb https://cybermaggedon.github.io/cyberprobe-release/ubuntu \
  bionic main
@end example

Once added, the cyberprobe installation proceeds thus:

@example
apt-get update
apt-get install cyberprobe
@end example

@heading Fedora

@cindex Fedora
@cindex @command{dnf}

To install using DNF, create file
@file{/etc/yum.repos.d/cyberprobe.repo}:

@example
[cyberprobe]
name=Cyberprobe
baseurl=https://cybermaggedon.github.io/cyberprobe-release/fedora/$releasever/$basearch/
gpgcheck=1
enabled=1
gpgkey=https://cybermaggedon.github.io/cyberprobe-release/cyberprobe.asc
@end example

and then:

@example
dnf install cyberprobe
@end example

We use this signing key:
@example
@include signing.texi
@end example

@heading Amazon Linux

@cindex Amazon Linux
@cindex @command{yum}

To install using Yum create file
@file{/etc/yum.repos.d/cyberprobe.repo}:

@example
[cyberprobe]
name=Cyberprobe
baseurl=https://cybermaggedon.github.io/cyberprobe-release/amazon/$releasever/$basearch/
gpgcheck=1
enabled=1
gpgkey=https://cybermaggedon.github.io/cyberprobe-release/cyberprobe.asc
@end example

and then:

@example
yum install cyberprobe
@end example

We use this signing key:
@example
@include signing.texi
@end example

@heading Download packages

You can download packages manually; packages are currently available for
Fedora, CentOS, Debian and Ubuntu.  Downloads are available on the project
page at
@url{http://github.com/cybermaggedon/cyberprobe/releases}.

Fedora packages are installed using @code{dnf}:

@example
sudo dnf install <package>
@end example

Debian and Ubuntu packages are installed using @code{dpkg}:

@example
sudo dpkg -i <package>
@end example

If there are dependency errors e.g. because you don't have some dependencies
installed, you can install them thus:

@example
sudo apt-get install -f
@end example

@heading Install from source

Note: on many platforms, installing a package just adds the "run time" part
of the code. In order to be able to compile code against the run time, you
need to install a separate "developers kit" package. On Fedora, for
instance, both @code{libpcap} and @code{libpcap-devel} are needed in order to
be able to build this code from source.

Note also that @code{lua} packages can be a little strange: sometimes the
package will exist in your distribution, at other times you need to install a
utility called @code{luarocks} to install the package.

Source downloads are available on the project page at
@url{http://github.com/cybermaggedon/cyberprobe/releases},
look for the @file{.tar.gz} file.

These files can be unwrapped, then configured:

@example
tar xvfz cyberprobe-X.Y.tar.gz
cd cyberprobe-X.Y
./configure
make
sudo make install
@end example

@file{README.linux} provides some hints for Linux users.
If installing on MacOS, read @file{README.mac}.

@cindex Checkout from @command{git} repository
@cindex @command{git} repository
@heading Installing from git

To checkout the latest code using git:

@example
git clone https://github.com/cybermaggedon/cyberprobe
@end example

To build, use:

@example
autoreconf -fi
./configure
make
sudo make install
@end example

Powered by Github, project page is at
@url{https://cybermaggedon.github.io/cyberprobe-docs/}.

@cindex Docker
@cindex Containers
@cindex Cyberprobe, docker repository
@cindex @command{cyberprobe}, docker repository
@cindex @command{cybermon}, docker repository
@heading Docker repository

There are two Docker repositories containing the Cyberprobe distribution.
See @url{http://hub.docker.com/r/cybermaggedon/cyberprobe}.

@itemize

@item
@code{docker.io/cybermaggedon/cyberprobe}

@item
@code{docker.io/cybermaggedon/cybermon}

@end itemize

The only difference is the default command which is executed on running
the container.  Here are some container invocations you may find useful:

@itemize

@item
Run @command{cyberprobe}.  You will need to create a configuration file
and map it in to the container.
@example
sudo docker -it --rm -v /etc/cyberprobe:/etc/cyberprobe_host \
  docker.io/cybermaggedon/cyberprobe \
  cyberprobe /etc/cyberprobe_host/cyberprobe.fg
@end example

@item
Run @command{cybermon}.  The @command{cybermon} container exposes port
9000.
@example
sudo docker -it --rm -p 9000:9000 -v \
  --net=host --privileged --cap-add=NET_ADMIN \
  docker.io/cybermaggedon/cybermon \
  cybermon -p 9000 -c /etc/cyberprobe/amqp-topic.lua
@end example

@item
Run @command{cybermon-cassandra}.  You need to know the IP address
of the host side of the Docker bridge network, and provide addresses
of the Cassandra servers.
@example
sudo docker -it --rm -v \
  docker.io/cybermaggedon/cybermon \
  cybermon-cassandra cyberprobe \
  10.142.146.6,10.142.146.8
@end example

@end itemize

Running cyberprobe in a container makes the deployment easier, but it needs
to run with elevated privileges in order to sniff the network, which reduces
some of the advantages of running it in a container.

@heading Dependencies

The code doesn't have many dependencies. Exotic dependencies are:

@cindex dependencies
@cindex Build dependencies
@cindex Boost
@cindex Lua
@cindex @code{libpcap}
@cindex @code{expat}
@cindex @code{tcpdump}
@cindex @code{telnet}
@cindex @code{luafilesystem}
@cindex @code{luajson}
@cindex @code{libtaxii}
@cindex @code{stix}
@cindex @code{lua-md5}
@cindex @code{ncurses}
@cindex @code{readline}

@itemize

@item
Boost regex.

@item
Boost shared pointer.

@item
LUA - 5.1 or later.

@item
GCC C++ compiler and development support.

@item
@code{libpcap}.

@item
@code{tcpdump} - not needed to build the software, but we use it in the
tutorial.

@item
@code{telnet} - not needed to build the software, but we use it in the
tutorial.

@item
@code{luafilesystem}, if using certain Lua configuration files.

@item
@code{luajson}, if using certain Lua configuration files.

@item
@code{lua-md5}, for MD5 hashing payloads.

@item
@code{ncurses}, needed for the command line admin utility.

@item
@code{readline}, needed for the command line admin utility.

@item
For STIX support, @code{libtaxii} and @code{stix} are Python modules
made available at @url{http://mitre.org} which can be downloaded using
@code{pip}.

@end itemize
