
@node Writing your own configuration file
@section Writing your own configuration file

Now, take a copy of the @file{quiet.lua} configuration file, and have a look
at it. It is a Lua module which defines a minimum of one function,
@samp{event}, which is called when events occur.  LUA
is a lightweight scripting langauge which is really good as a configuration
language. This function is called when a TCP connection is
made:

@cindex @code{event}

@example
observer.event = function(e)
end
@end example

Let's get hacking! The header parameter is a LUA table which contains
key/value pairs from the header. The url parameter contains the full URL of
the response. The body parameter contains the payload body as an empty
string. Let's start simple:

@cindex @code{http_response}

@example
observer.event = function(e)
  if e.action == "http_response" then
    print(url)
  end
end
@end example

Then run that up...

@example
cybermon -p 10000 -c my.lua
@end example

Now, do some web browsing, and you should see a list of URLs flying
past. Each web page typically consists of several HTTP requests, but you
should be able to see the URLs associated with all of the web pages you
visit. Let's tart that up a little more:

@example
-- This function is called when an HTTP response is observed.
observer.event = function(e)

  if e.action == "http_response" then

    -- Take first 40 characters of URL
    local u = url:sub(1,40)

    -- Get Content-Type (first 20 characters)
    local ct
    ct = ""
    for key, value in pairs(header) do
      if key:lower() == "content-type" then
        ct = value:sub(1,20)
      end
    end

    io.write(string.format("%-40s %-20s %d\n", u, ct, #body))

  end

end
@end example

That basically outputs three columns: The URL (truncated to 40 characters),
the body content type (truncated to 20 characters) and the HTTP response
payload length. Here's what I get from visiting Slashdot:

@example
http://widget-cdn.rpxnow.com/manifest/sh text/javascript;char 42980
http://slashdot.org/                     text/html; charset=u 40105
http://ad.doubleclick.net/adj/ostg.slash text/javascript; cha 5625
http://pagead2.googlesyndication.com/pag application/x-shockw 33347
http://ad.doubleclick.net/adj/ostg.slash text/javascript; cha 540
http://ad.doubleclick.net/adj/ostg.slash text/javascript; cha 42
http://ad.doubleclick.net/adj/ostg.slash text/javascript; cha 452
http://pagead2.googlesyndication.com/pag                      0
@end example

@heading Forging a TCP reset

So far, this has just been monitoring. It's time to add data to the network!
From the LUA functions, there are a couple of functions available which
allow you to put some packets back onto the network.

@cindex TCP reset
@cindex Packet forgery
@cindex Packet injection
@cindex @command{cyberprobe}, delay
@cindex Delay

But first... there's a problem. You remember in step 9, we added a delay?
That's not going to work with packet forgery, because by the time we've
forged a packet and sent it on to the network, it's too late. So, we need to
change our interface back so that there's no delay on the interface. That
means, we're monitoring network data, but we'll miss the original attack
which triggered a Snort alert.

@example
    ...
    "interfaces": [
        @{ "interface": "eth0", "delay": 0.0 @}
    ],
    ...        
@end example

Once you have this code working, you might be able to mess with the delay
parameter to see if you can pick a low-latency value that works for you. On
my network, the value 0.02 is low enough to allow a response to allow packet
forgery to work. Any higher, and the forged packets are too late to beat the
real packets.

The LUA interface passes a context variable to many of the LUA functions,
which gives access to @command{cybermon} information and the packet forgery
functions. In this step, we're going to forge a TCP reset on any connections
which are from or to port 80. Hack the configuration file:

@cindex @code{event}
@cindex @code{context}
@cindex @code{connected_up}

@example
observer.event = function(e)

  if e.action == "connected_up" then

    -- Get TCP ports.
    local cls, src_addr, dest_addr
    cls, src_addr = e.context:get_src_addr()
    cls, dest_addr = e.context:get_dest_addr()

    -- check if it is port 80.
    if not((src_addr == "80") or (dest_addr == "80")) then
      -- Ignore non-HTTP traffic
      return
    end

    -- TCP reset    
    print("Reset on HTTP connection.")
    e.context:forge_tcp_reset(context)

  end

end
@end example

Now before we go any further, @command{cybermon} needs to run as root in
order to use either of the packet forgery functions. Packet forgery needs
access to the raw IP socket layer, which is a privileged operation. Start
that up:

@example
sudo cybermon -p 10000 -c my.lua
@end example

Now start web browsing, and you should see a bunch of "Reset on HTTP
connection" messages. Also, you'll see a page saying "The connection was
reset" in your web browser. That's a fairly anti-social configuration to run
on any network. See the @file{forge-reset.lua} example for a more useful
configuration. It disrupts network traffic going to/from an SSH server which
isn't from your administration workstation.

On any network with an SSH service open to the outside world, you might want
to use firewall rules to prevent access to the SSH service from addresses
outside of your network, but you could use @command{cybermon} as a
belt-and-braces protection mechanism.

Another example is where you know the user community on your network is
being targeted by phishing emails. Your first step is to try to get the
phishing emails out of their inboxes, getting your email provider to filter
the attacks. But a backup attack would be to make sure your users can't get
to the phisher's web site. The event function allows us to reset
requests going to a particular web site.

@cindex @code{event}
@cindex @code{context}
@cindex @code{http_request}

@example
observer.event = function (e)

  if e.action == "http_request" then

    if e.header["Host"] == "example.org" then
      print("Reset on HTTP request")
      context:forge_tcp_reset(context)
    end

    if e.header["Host"] == "www.example.org" then
      print("Reset on HTTP request")
      context:forge_tcp_reset(context)
    end

  end

end
@end example

@heading Forging a DNS response

@cindex Forging, DNS response

In this step, we'll detect a particular DNS request, and forge a
response. First of all, you'll need to familiarise yourself with host which
is a useful DNS test tool. e.g.

@example
$ host -t a example.org
example.org has address 93.184.216.119
@end example

The @code{example.org} name has been resolved to a particular IP
address. Let's hack the DNS request function in @file{my.lua}:

@cindex @code{event}
@cindex @code{context}
@cindex @code{dns_message}

@example
-- This function is called when a DNS message is observed.
observer.event = function(e)

  if e.event == "dns_message" then

    -- Check my assumptions.  Need a DNS query request, with one query,
    -- name is example.org, type 'A', class 'IN'.
    if e.header.qr == 0 and #e.queries == 1 and
      e.queries[1].name == "example.org" and e.queries[1].type == 1 and
      e.queries[1].class == 1 then

      -- Send a fake response

      -- Set query/response flag to 'response'

      new_hdr = e.header
      new_hdr.qr = 1

      new_ans = e.answers

      -- 1 answer
      new_ans = @{@}
      new_ans[1] = @{@}
      new_ans[1].name = "example.org"
      new_ans[1].type = 1
      new_ans[1].class = 1
      new_ans[1].rdaddress = "1.2.3.4"

      -- 1 answer
      new_hdr.ancount = 1

      io.write("Forging DNS response!\n")

      context:forge_dns_response(context, new_hdr, queries, new_ans,
                                 @{@}, @{@})

    end

  end

end
@end example

So, this example, checks that the query is one we want to mess with. If it
is, we turn the query structures into response structures, and hand them
back to @command{cybermon} to do a forgery. The above example forges the
address @code{1.2.3.4}. Start up @command{cybermon} with the script:

@example
cybermon -p 10000 -c my.lua
@end example

If everything is working your host command will show a different result:

@example
$ host -t a example.org
example.org has address 1.2.3.4
@end example

DNS forgery has applications in blocking access to a phishers
resources on the internet, you might want to redirect your users to an
address which is inside your network.

The @ref{@command{cybermon} configuration} documentation details the LUA
interface in detail if
you want to find out what else you can do in your LUA code.

