
@node Cyberprobe indicator format
@section Cyberprobe indicator format

@cindex IOC
@cindex Indicator of compromise
@cindex Indicator

@heading Overview

The @command{evs-detector} subscriber implements detection against a
set of indicators (see @ref{@command{evs-detector} invocation}.  The
indicators are presented in a file containing JSON describing the
indicators.

Indicators consist of two parts:

@itemize @bullet

@item
A boolean expression which describes what to look for.

@item
A descriptor which describes changes made to the output event when an
indicator selects data.

@end itemize

@heading Overall structure

The indicators file consists of a simple header containing the
@samp{description} and @samp{version} fields.  The @samp{version} field is
intended to record a revision history identified for the indicators, and
should be changed to a unique value when an update occurs.

These fields are not used by @command{evs-detector}.  

@example
@{
    "description": "Some test data",
    "version": "1",
    "indicators": [
      ...
    ]
@}
@end example

The @samp{indicators} field consists of a list of indicators.

@heading Indicator

An indicator consists of: an ID, a descriptor which is tagged onto events
when they hit indicators, and a definition of what to hit on.  The
example below shows ID and descriptor.  

@example
@{
    "id": "6b7aa83f-8c43-4aaa-817f-5039adef19ef",
    "descriptor": @{
        "description": "URL of a page serving malware",
        "category": "malware",
        "author": "someone@@example.com",
        "source": "id:3245edd9-e0f3-4982-9406-fbf93b874555",
        "type": "url",
        "value": "http://malware.org/malware.dat"
    @},
    ...
@}
@end example

A descriptor contains a type/value pair which is a seed of information that an
investigator would want to search for for further information.

The descriptor fields are:

@table @samp

@item description
A human-readable description of the purpose of this indicator.

@item category
A threat category for the indicator, which is used to group threats into
type of threat

@item author
Email address of indicator author

@item source
Source of the indicator, should be a URL e.g. a web-page address of a report

@item type
The type of the @samp{value} field, can be one of @samp{hostname},
@samp{url}, @samp{ipv4}, @samp{ipv6}, @samp{tcp}, @samp{udp}, @samp{email}.

@end table

@heading Indicator value

The indicator value consists of four constructs:

@itemize @bullet

@item
@samp{and}

@item
@samp{or}

@item
@samp{not}

@item
Match term

@end itemize

The value construct is included in the Indicator object alongside the
@samp{id} field e.g.

@example
@{
    "id": "845bcc85-49f5-427c-806c-5fe5984c2c5c",
    "descriptor": @{
      ...
    @},
    "type": "tcp",
    "value": "11111"
@}
@end example

or

@example
@{
    "id": "845bcc85-49f5-427c-806c-5fe5984c2c5c",
    "descriptor": @{
      ...
    @},
    "or": [
        @{
            "type": "tcp",
            "value": "11111"
        @},
        @{
            "type": "tcp",
            "value": "11112"
        @}
    ]
@}
@end example

The four value constructs can be combined with multiple layers to any
depth.

@subheading Match term

The simple matching form consists of a type and value.  The type field
can be one of: @samp{hostname}, @samp{url}, @samp{ipv4}, @samp{ipv4.src},
@samp{ipv4.dest}, @samp{ipv6}, @samp{ipv6.src}, @samp{ipv6.dest},
@samp{tcp}, @samp{tcp.src}, @samp{tcp.dest}, @samp{udp},
@samp{udp.src}, @samp{udp.dest}, @samp{email}. e.g.

@example
@{
    "type": "ipv4.src",
    "value": "192.168.0.1"
@}
@end example

@subheading @samp{and} construct

The @samp{and} construct is true if all of its children are true.

@example
"and": [
    @{
        "type": "hostname",
        "value": "example.com"
    @},
    @{
        "type": "tcp",
        "value": "11112"
    @}
]
@end example

@subheading @samp{or} construct

The @samp{or} construct is true if any of its children are true.

@example
"or": [
    @{
        "type": "hostname",
        "value": "example.com"
    @},
    @{
        "type": "hostname",
        "value": "example.com"
    @}
]
@end example

@subheading @samp{not} construct

The @samp{not} construct is true if its child is false.

@example
"not": @{
    "type": "hostname",
    "value": "example.com"
@}
@end example

@heading Threat exchanges

See @url{https://github.com/cybermaggedon/threat-exchanges} for code which
creates indicator sets from threat exchanges.
