
@node @command{taxii-server} invocation
@section @command{taxii-server} invocation

@cindex @command{taxii-server}, invocation

@command{taxii-server} provides a TAXII compliant
server to distribute cyber threat information.  TAXII/STIX implementation
is experimental and incomplete.

See
@url{https://taxii.mitre.org/} for more information on TAXII and STIX.
Synopsis:

@example
taxii-server [-h] [--host HOST] [--port PORT] [--data-dir DATA_DIR]
        [--db DB] [--sync-period SYNC_PERIOD]
@end example

Example:
@example
taxii-server --port 8100 --data-dir data/ --db stix.db
@end example

@table @samp

@item -h
@itemx --help
Shows command line usage.

@item --host @var{HOST}
Host to bind the HTTP service to.

@item --port @var{PORT}
Specifies port number of the TAXII service.

@item --data-dir @var{PATH}
Specifies the directory where STIX files are to be placed.  Directory
structure should be @var{PATH}/@var{COLLECTION}/@var{STIX-FILE}.

@item --db @var{DB}
Specifies a file to hold the STIX data.  Default is @file{stix_store.db}.
This is created if it does not exist.

@item --sync-period @var{PERIOD}
Specifies the period for synchronising the data directory with the database.
Default is @samp{1}.

@end table

The TAXII server periodically checks the data directory with the contents
of the database, and updates the database accordingly.  Deleting files results
in deletion from the database, adding files results in creation.  Thus, the
data directory is the master copy for the sync process.
