
@node @command{taxii-sync-json} invocation
@section @command{taxii-sync-json} invocation

@cindex @command{taxii-sync-json}, invocation

@command{taxii-sync-json} provides a means to connect with a TAXII compliant
server to acquire cyber threat information.  @command{taxii-sync-json}
uses a TAXII poll request, and reformats all STIX information into a single
JSON file which is written to the current directory.  This JSON form is
intended to be used with @command{evs-detector}.
See @ref{@command{evs-detector} invocation}.

TAXII/STIX implementation is experimental and incomplete.

See
@url{https://taxii.mitre.org/} for more information on TAXII and STIX.
Synopsis:

@example
taxii-sync-json [-h] [--host HOST] [--port PORT] [--path PATH]
        [--collection COLLECTION] [--begin_timestamp BEGIN_TS]
        [--end_timestamp END_TS]
@end example

Example:
@example
taxii-sync-json -h taxii.com
@end example

@table @samp

@item -h
@itemx --help
Shows command line usage.

@item --host @var{HOST}
Specifies host to connect to.

@item --port @var{PORT}
Specifies port number of the TAXII service.

@item --path @var{PATH}
Specifies the URI of the service.  Default is @samp{/}.

@item --collection @var{COLLECTION}
Specifies the TAXII collection to use.  Default is @samp{default}.

@item --begin_timestamp @var{BEGIN}
Specifies the TAXII collection to use.  Default is @samp{default}.

@item --end_timestamp @var{END}
Specifies the TAXII collection to use.  Default is @samp{default}.

@end table

The JSON information is written to the current directory to a file called
@file{stix-@var{COLLECTION}-combined.json} where @var{COLLECTION} is the
collection name chosen.

Begin/end timestamps take the following form:
@example
YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.ssssss+/-hh:mm
@end example
