
@node @command{cyberprobe-cli} commands
@section @command{cyberprobe-cli} commands

@cindex @command{cyberprobe-cli}, commands
@cindex Management client

The following commands are supported by @command{cyberprobe-cli}:

@table @samp

@item add endpoint HOST PORT TYPE [TRANSPORT [KEY CERT CA]]
Adds a delivery endpoint.
@table @samp
@item HOST
Specifies the delivery host.
@item PORT
Specifies TCP port to deliver to.
@item TYPE
Can be one of @samp{nhis} or @samp{etsi} for delivery protocol.
@item TRANSPORT
Can be one of @samp{tcp} or @samp{tls} for TCP or TLS transports.
Defaults to @samp{tcp}.
@item KEY
Filename of a key file in PEM format if @samp{tls} is specified.
@item CERT
Filename of an X.509 file in PEM format if @samp{tls} is specified.
@item TRANSPORT
Filename of trusted CA certs in PEM format if @samp{tls} is specified.
@end table

Note: It is not possible to specify the appropriate transport paramters for
TLS delivery using the management interface currently.

@item add interface INTERFACE [DELAY [FILTER]]
Adds an interface for packet sniffing.
@table @samp
@item INTERFACE
Interface name.
@item DELAY
Delay between packet acquisiton and delivery.  Defaults to zero.
@item FILTER
Optional, species a filter to be applied for positive selection of packets,
in BPF / libpcap format.
@end table

@item add parameter KEY VALUE
Adds a parameter.
@table @samp
@item KEY
Parameter key.
@item VALUE
Parameter value.
@end table

@item add target DEVICE PROTOCOL ADDRESS
Adds an address target for packet capture.
@table @samp
@item DEVICE
Device identifier.
@item PROTOCOL
Address protocol, one of @samp{ipv4} or @samp{ipv6}.
@item ADDRESS
Address value, in IPv4 or IPv6 format, according to the PROTOCOL value.
Optionally can have a @samp{/mask} suffic.
@end table

@item quit
Causes the client to close the connection and terminate.

@item remove endpoint HOST PORT TYPE [TRANSPORT [KEY CERT CHAIN]]
Removes an endpoint added through the @samp{add endpoint} command.
The HOST, PORT TYPE and TRANSPORT, ... values are the same as for
@samp{add endpoint}.

@item remove interface INTERFACE [DELAY [FILTER]]
Removes an interface added through the @samp{add interface} command.
The INTERFACE, DELAY and FILTER values are the same as for @samp{add interface}.

@item remove paramter KEY VALUE
Removes a paramter added through the @samp{add parameter} command.
The KEY and VALUE values are the same as for @samp{remove parameter}.

@item remove target DEVICE PROTOCOL ADDRESS
Removes a target added through the @samp{remove target} command.
The PROTOCOL and ADDRESS values are the same as for @samp{add target}.

@item show endpoints
Displays a table showing endpoints.

@item show interfaces
Displays a table showing interfaces.

@item show parameters
Displays a table showing parameters.

@item show targets
Displays a table showing targets.

@end table
