
@node @command{cybermon} invocation
@section @command{cybermon} invocation

@cindex @command{cybermon}, invocation
@cindex VXLAN
@cindex AWS Traffic Mirroring

@command{cybermon} is a configurable network packet stream analyser.  It is
designed to receive packets from cyberprobe, analyse them and generate
session/transport level events which result in user-configurable
actions. For each event, a call is made to a Lua script which the caller
provides.  Synposes:

@example
cybermon [--help] [--transport TRANSPORT] [--port PORT] [--key KEY]
        [--certificate CERT] [--trusted-ca CHAIN] [--pcap PCAP_FILE]
        [--config CONFIG] [--vxlan VXLAN-PORT]
@end example

@itemize @bullet

@item
@var{TRANSPORT}
is either @samp{tcp} or @samp{tls}.  If @samp{tls} is specified, @samp{cybermon}
expects to read data over TLS.  In TLS mode, it is necessary to specify the
key, certificate, and trusted CA files.

@item
@var{PORT}
is a TCP port number.  This form of the command runs as a TCP server
listening for ETSI LI streams.  See @ref{ETSI LI}.

@item
@var{KEY}
specifies a filename for the private key in PEM format.  Only used in TLS mode.

@item
@var{CERT}
specifies a filename for the public certificate in PEM format.
Only used in TLS mode.

@item
@var{CHAIN}
specifies a filename for trusted CA keys in PEM format.  Only used in TLS mode.

@item
@var{PCAP_FILE}
is a PCAP file to read.  This form of the command reads the PCAP file, and
then exits.  If the file is @samp{-}, standard input is read.

@item
@var{CONFIG}
is a Lua configuration file, which specifies the action @command{cybermon}
should take when certain events are observed.  See
@ref{@command{cybermon} configuration}.

@item
@var{VXLAN-PORT}
is a UDP port number.  This describes a port number to listen on for
VXLAN protocol.  This scenario is used to receive traffic-mirrored data
on AWS.

@end itemize
