
@node @command{taxii-client} invocation
@section @command{taxii-client} invocation

@cindex @command{taxii-client}, invocation

@command{taxii-client} provides a means to connect with a TAXII compliant
server to acquire cyber threat information.  TAXII/STIX implementation
is experimental and incomplete.

See
@url{https://taxii.mitre.org/} for more information on TAXII and STIX.
Synopsis:

@example
taxii-client [-h] [--host HOST] [--port PORT] [--path PATH]
        [--collection COLLECTION] [--begin_timestamp BEGIN_TS]
        [--end_timestamp END_TS] [--discovery] [--poll]
        [--collection_information] [--subscribe] [--action ACT]
        [--query QUERY] [--subs-id SUBSCRIPTION_ID]
        [--inbox INBOX]
@end example

Example:
@example
taxii-client -h taxii.com --poll
@end example

@table @samp

@item -h
@itemx --help
Shows command line usage.

@item --host @var{HOST}
Specifies host to connect to.

@item --port @var{PORT}
Specifies port number of the TAXII service.

@item --path @var{PATH}
Specifies the URI of the service.  Default is @samp{/}.

@item --collection @var{COLLECTION}
Specifies the TAXII collection to use.  Default is @samp{default}.

@item --begin_timestamp @var{BEGIN}
Specifies the TAXII collection to use.  Default is @samp{default}.

@item --end_timestamp @var{END}
Specifies the TAXII collection to use.  Default is @samp{default}.

@item --discovery
Invokes a TAXII discovery action.

@item --poll
Invokes a TAXII poll action.

@item --collection_information
Invokes a collection information action.

@item --subscribe
Invokes a TAXII subscribe action.

@item --action @var{ACT}
Specieis the subscription action to perform.

@item --query @var{QUERY}
Specifies the query to use for an inbox or poll action.  Query takes the
form: @samp{type:value}.  Type can be one of:

@table @samp

@item address
CybOX address object value e.g. @samp{address:1.2.3.4}

@item addresstype
CybOX address object type e.g. @samp{addresstype:e-mail}

@item domainname
CybOX DNS name

@item port
TCP/UDP port number e.g. @samp{port:11111}

@item hash
File object hash value.

@item id
Object ID.

@item source
Object source identifier.

@end table

Multiple query values may be specified in which case they are combined with
a logical AND.

@item --subs-id @var{SUBS-ID}
Specifies the subscription ID for a subscription operation.

@item --inbox @var{INBOX}
Specifies the inbox destination for subscriptions.  The default value is
@code{http://localhost:8888/}.

@end table

Begin/end timestamps take the following form:
@example
YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.ssssss+/-hh:mm
@end example
